docs: Add renovate related best practices guide (#15589)
renovatebot/renovate: docs/development/best-practices.md

# Best Practices

## General

- Prefer full function declaration, as opposed to `const func = ():void => {}`, for readability and better stack traces
- Use logger metadata:

Use

```js
logger.trace({ obj }, 'title');
```

instead of

```js
logger.trace('title:\n' + obj);

> ```

Reviewer: add a logging section?

> - Use descriptive `istanbul` comments

Reviewer: Also prevent `istanbul` comments and add tests. Only use those comments if codepath is required for coimpilations but never hit at runtime.

- Prefer `jest.spyOn` for mocking single functions, or mock entire modules
  - Avoid overwriting functions, for example: (`func = jest.fn();`)

### Fixtures

- use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures

```js
Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading raw data
Fixture.getJson('./file.json'); // for loading and parsing objects
```

### Working with vanilla JS files (renovate/tools only)

Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/index.html) to declare types and function prototypes.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/tools/distro-json-generate.mjs#L7-L17)

### Classes

Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope)
. getter must be a `pure function`.

- Omit constructors when defining Static classes
- [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript's
  visibility annotations.
- Avoid underscore suffixes or prefixes, for example: `_prop`, use [whole words](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope) as

>   suffix/prefix i.e `internalProp`

Author: if we do plan to have this, do we want to permit some renovate related prefix for API scheme checking
like in here:
https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/b87b3b0087dbf4ca3dfb1794696b0e0259c1c765/lib/modules/versioning/index.spec.ts#L110-L113

as of now, underscore is used to indicate private class variables and methods (like _parse in genericVersioning?)

Reviewer: We should probably be relaxed here, as we otherwise can't easily distinguish between private and public api 🤔

Author: so we leave the test as is.
should we keep this bullet point?

# Best Practices

## General

> - Prefer full function declaration (as opposed to `const func = ():void => {}`) for readability and better stack traces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Prefer full function declaration, as opposed to `const func = ():void => {}`, for readability and better stack traces
```

Just using `,` is clearer, and removes the confusion between the text `()` and the code `()`.

- Use logger metadata:

Use

```js
logger.trace('title:\n' + obj);
```

instead of

```js
logger.trace({ obj }, 'title');
```

> - When using `istanbul` comments add descriptive comment to it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use descriptive `istanbul` comments
```

```js
// istanbul ignore next: can never happen
```

> - [Don't use Enums](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/13743), use union
>   or [immutable objects instead](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/pep440/range.ts#L8-L20)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid [Enums](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/13743), use union
  or [immutable objects](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/pep440/range.ts#L8-L20) instead
```

  .

### Array constructor

> TypeScript code must not use the `Array()` constructor, with or without `new`. It has confusing and contradictory usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid the `Array()` constructor, with or without `new`, in your TypeScript code.
It has confusing and contradictory usage.
```

```js
const a = new Array(2); // [undefined, undefined]
const b = new Array(2, 3); // [2, 3];
```

Instead, always use bracket notation to initialize arrays, or `from` to initialize an Array with a certain size.

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#array-constructor)

### Iterating objects & containers

Use `for ( ... of ...)` loops instead of `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach` and `for ( ... in ...)`.

- Using `for ( ... in ...)` for objects is error-prone. It will include enumerable properties from the prototype chain.
- Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively give the array's indices.

> - Do not use `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. They make code harder to debug and defeat some useful compiler
>   checks (e.g. reachability).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like reachability.
```

> Use `Array.prototype.map()` only when the return value is used, otherwise use `for ( ... of ...)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Only use `Array.prototype.map()` when the return value is used, otherwise use `for ( ... of ...)`.
```

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#iterating-objects)

### Exports

> Use named exports in all code.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use named exports in all code.
```

> Do not use default exports. This ensures that all imports follow a uniform pattern.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid default `exports`.
This way all `imports` follow the same pattern.
```

[Source, reasoning and examples.](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#exports)

### Imports

> Use ES6 module syntax.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use ES6 module syntax.
```

> Code must not use require `(as in import x = require('...');)` for imports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid `require` `(as in import x = require('...');)` for imports.
```

> ### Http & RESTful API request handling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### HTTP & RESTful API request handling
```

> Prefer using [`got`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) for simplifying http request handling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefer using [`got`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) for simplifying HTTP request handling.
```

### Date & Time handling

> Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) for date and time handling.\

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) for date and time handling.
```

> Use `UTC` so to be time zone independent.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `UTC` to be time zone independent.
```

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.ts#L133-L134)

### Unit Testing

- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`
- Mock Date/Time when testing a Date/Time dependent module

>   - For `Luxon` mocking
>     see [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.spec.ts#L7-L10)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - For `Luxon` mocking see [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.spec.ts#L7-L10)
```

- Prefer `jest.spyOn` for mocking single functions, or mock entire modules.

>   - Don't overwrite functions i.e. (`func = jest.fn();`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Avoid overwriting functions, for example: (`func = jest.fn();`)
```

### Fixtures

- use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures

```js
Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading raw data
Fixture.getJson('./file.json'); // for loading and parsing objects
```

### Working with vanilla JS files (renovate/tools only)

Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/index.html) to declare types and function prototypes.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/tools/distro-json-generate.mjs#L7-L17)

### Classes

Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope)
. getter must be a `pure function`.

- Omit constructors when defining Static classes
- [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript's
  visibility annotations.

> - Don't use underscore suffix/prefix for i.e. `_prop`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid underscore suffixes or prefixes, for example: `_prop`,
```

> # Best Practices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Best practices
```

## General

- Prefer full function declaration, as opposed to `const func = ():void => {}`, for readability and better stack traces

> - Avoid [Enums](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/13743), use union
>   or [immutable objects](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/pep440/range.ts#L8-L20) instead

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid [Enums](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/13743), use union or [immutable objects](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/pep440/range.ts#L8-L20) instead
```

We don't wrap line items or sentences in our docs. 😉

- Always add unit tests for full code coverage

>   - Only use `istanbul` comments for unreachable code coverage that is needed for `codecov` completion.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Only use `istanbul` comments for unreachable code coverage that is needed for `codecov` completion
```

We don't use punctuation at the end of the list item.

  - Use descriptive `istanbul` comments

```js
// istanbul ignore next: can never happen
```

### Logging

> 
> - Use logger metadata:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use logger metadata, like this:
```

```js
logger.trace({ obj }, 'title');
```

> instead of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Avoid:
```

```js
logger.trace('title:\n' + obj);
```

### Array constructor

Avoid the `Array()` constructor, with or without `new`, in your TypeScript code.
It has confusing and contradictory usage.

```js
const a = new Array(2); // [undefined, undefined]
const b = new Array(2, 3); // [2, 3];
```

> Instead, always use bracket notation to initialize arrays, or `from` to initialize an Array with a certain size.

Reviewer 2: "Initialize an Array with a certain size" is a bit vague to me. Are there guidelines when you should use Bracket notatation, and when you should use `from`? Can we give a number of array items when you should use `from`?

Author: added a `from` example

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#array-constructor)

### Iterating objects & containers

Use `for ( ... of ...)` loops instead of `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach` and `for ( ... in ...)`.

- Using `for ( ... in ...)` for objects is error-prone. It will include enumerable properties from the prototype chain

> - Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively give the array's indices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively return the array's indices
```

Do you mean `return` here maybe?

- Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like
  reachability

Only use `Array.prototype.map()` when the return value is used, otherwise use `for ( ... of ...)`.

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#iterating-objects)

### Exports

Use named exports in all code.
Avoid default `exports`.
This way all `imports` follow the same pattern.

[Source, reasoning and examples.](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#exports)

### Imports

> Use ES6 module syntax.

Reviewer 2: Is it clear to people what ES6 module syntax is? Do we need to add a link to some docs?

Author: added a link

Avoid `require` `(as in import x = require('...');)` for imports.

### HTTP & RESTful API request handling

> Prefer using [`got`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) for simplifying HTTP request handling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Prefer using [`got`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) to simplify HTTP request handling.
```

Use a strong verb. 😄

> ### Date & Time handling

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Dates and times
```

Simplify and drop the `&` character.

> Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) for date and time handling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) to handle dates and times.
```

Use a strong verb.

Use `UTC` to be time zone independent.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.ts#L133-L134)

> ### Unit Testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Unit testing
```

- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`
- Mock Date/Time when testing a Date/Time dependent module
  - For `Luxon` mocking see [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.spec.ts#L7-L10)
- Prefer `jest.spyOn` for mocking single functions, or mock entire modules
  - Avoid overwriting functions, for example: (`func = jest.fn();`)

### Fixtures

> - use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures
```

```js
Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading raw data
Fixture.getJson('./file.json'); // for loading and parsing objects
```

### Working with vanilla JS files (renovate/tools only)

Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/index.html) to declare types and function prototypes.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/tools/distro-json-generate.mjs#L7-L17)

### Classes

Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope)
. getter must be a `pure function`.

- Omit constructors when defining Static classes

> - [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript's
>   visibility annotations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript'svisibility annotations
```

Don't wrap line items, drop full stop at end of line item.

> - Avoid underscore suffixes or prefixes, for example: `_prop`, use [whole words](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope) as
>   suffix/prefix i.e `internalProp`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid underscore suffixes or prefixes, for example: `_prop`, use [whole words](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope) as suffix/prefix i.e `internalProp`
```

Don't wrap line items.

# Best practices

## General

- Prefer full function declarations for readability and better stack traces, so avoid `const func = ():void => {}`
- Avoid [Enums](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/issues/13743), use union or [immutable objects](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/pep440/range.ts#L8-L20) instead
- Always add unit tests for full code coverage
  - Only use `istanbul` comments for unreachable code coverage that is needed for `codecov` completion
  - Use descriptive `istanbul` comments

```js
// istanbul ignore next: can never happen
```

### Logging

> - Use logger metadata, like this:
> 
> ```js
> logger.trace({ obj }, 'title');
> ```
> 
> Avoid:
> 
> ```js
> logger.trace('title:\n' + obj);
> ```
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use logger metadata if logging for `WARN`, `ERROR`, `FATAL`, or if the result is a complex metadata object needing a multiple-line pretty stringification.
Otherwise, inline metadata into the log message if logging at `INFO` or below, or if the metadata object is complex.

`WARN` and above messages are often used in metrics or error catching services, and should have a consistent `msg` component so that they will be automatically grouped/associated together.
Metadata which is separate from its message is harder for human readability, so try to combine it in the message unless it's too complex to do so.

Good:

```js
logger.debug({ config }, 'Full config');
logger.warn({ presetName }, 'Failed to look up preset');
```

Avoid:

```js
logger.debug({ branchName }, 'Generated branchName');
logger.warn(`Failed to look up preset ${presetName}`);
```

```

Reviewer 3: @JamieMagee @viceice I've never really brought this one up before btw, but it's come to mind lots when I'm trying to manage the app at scale, use Sentry for grouping warnings, etc.

Reviewer 4: Makes sense, but the different advice for INFO would make this hard to enforce with a lint rule.

Reviewer 3: I'm happy to only enforce for warn and up if possible

Reviewer 2: I like the new text, but there's something wrong with the suggestion.

I find working with review suggestions on GitHub hard when there are multiple codeblocks. It always seems to get messed up somehow... 😄

Reviewer: the suggestion needs to have more backticks than the code blocks to get it working. 😉

Reviewer 3: I'll commit it then fix it

### Unit testing

- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`
- Mock Date/Time when testing a Date/Time dependent module
  - For `Luxon` mocking see [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.spec.ts#L7-L10)
- Prefer `jest.spyOn` for mocking single functions, or mock entire modules
  - Avoid overwriting functions, for example: (`func = jest.fn();`)

### Fixtures

- Use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures

```js
Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading raw data
Fixture.getJson('./file.json'); // for loading and parsing objects
```

### Working with vanilla JS files (renovate/tools only)

Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/index.html) to declare types and function prototypes.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/tools/distro-json-generate.mjs#L7-L17)

### Classes

Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope).
The getter must be a `pure function`.

- Omit constructors when defining Static classes

> - [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript's visibility annotations

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure the reasoning listed in your link applies to us:

> Private identifiers cause substantial emit size and performance regressions when down-leveled by TypeScript

I don't think we're down-leveling too far for this to be a problem. `#private` fields also have the benefit of being private at runtime as well.

Reviewer: they have a big performance regression until node v18

# Best practices

## General

> - Prefer full function declaration, as opposed to `const func = ():void => {}`, for readability and better stack traces

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Prefer full function declarations for readability and better stack traces, so avoid `const func = ():void => {}`
```

How about this?

  - Use descriptive `istanbul` comments

```js
// istanbul ignore next: can never happen
```

### Logging

- Use logger metadata, like this:

```js
logger.trace({ obj }, 'title');
```

Avoid:

```js
logger.trace('title:\n' + obj);
```

### Array constructor

Avoid the `Array()` constructor, with or without `new`, in your TypeScript code.
It has confusing and contradictory usage.

```js
const a = new Array(2); // [undefined, undefined]
const b = new Array(2, 3); // [2, 3];
```

Instead, always use bracket notation to initialize arrays, or `from` to initialize an Array with a certain size i.e.

```js
// [0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
Array.from < number > { length: 5 }.fill(0);
```

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#array-constructor)

### Iterating objects & containers

Use `for ( ... of ...)` loops instead of `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach` and `for ( ... in ...)`.

- Using `for ( ... in ...)` for objects is error-prone. It will include enumerable properties from the prototype chain
- Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively return the array's indices

> - Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like
>   reachability

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like reachability
```

Follow one sentence per line pattern.

### Dates and times

Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) to handle dates and times.
Use `UTC` to be time zone independent.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.ts#L133-L134)

### Unit testing

- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`
- Mock Date/Time when testing a Date/Time dependent module
  - For `Luxon` mocking see [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.spec.ts#L7-L10)
- Prefer `jest.spyOn` for mocking single functions, or mock entire modules
  - Avoid overwriting functions, for example: (`func = jest.fn();`)

### Fixtures

- Use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures

```js
Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading raw data
Fixture.getJson('./file.json'); // for loading and parsing objects
```

### Working with vanilla JS files (renovate/tools only)

Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/index.html) to declare types and function prototypes.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/tools/distro-json-generate.mjs#L7-L17)

### Classes

> Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope)
> . getter must be a `pure function`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope).
The getter must be a `pure function`.
```

I think this is what you meant?

- Omit constructors when defining Static classes

> - [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript'svisibility annotations

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [No `#private` fields](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#private-fields). instead, use TypeScript's visibility annotations
```

Typo. 😉

# Best practices

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

This document explains our best practices.
Follow these best practices when you're working on our code.

```

I'd like a short introduction to the contents of the page, and also explain why it's relevant/needed for the reader.

I think our goal here is to have the reader actually follow these best practices when they're working on our code?

  - Only use `istanbul` comments for unreachable code coverage that is needed for `codecov` completion
  - Use descriptive `istanbul` comments

```js
// istanbul ignore next: can never happen
```

### Logging

Use logger metadata if logging for `WARN`, `ERROR`, `FATAL`, or if the result is a complex metadata object needing a multiple-line pretty stringification.
Otherwise, inline metadata into the log message if logging at `INFO` or below, or if the metadata object is complex.

`WARN` and above messages are often used in metrics or error catching services, and should have a consistent `msg` component so that they will be automatically grouped/associated together.
Metadata which is separate from its message is harder for human readability, so try to combine it in the message unless it's too complex to do so.

Good:

```js
logger.debug({ config }, 'Full config');
logger.warn({ presetName }, 'Failed to look up preset');
```

Avoid:

```js
logger.debug({ branchName }, 'Generated branchName');
logger.warn(`Failed to look up preset ${presetName}`);
```

### Array constructor

Avoid the `Array()` constructor, with or without `new`, in your TypeScript code.

> It has confusing and contradictory usage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It has confusing and contradictory usage.
So you should avoid:
```

```js
// [0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
Array.from < number > { length: 5 }.fill(0);
```

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#array-constructor)

### Iterating objects & containers

Use `for ( ... of ...)` loops instead of `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach` and `for ( ... in ...)`.

- Using `for ( ... in ...)` for objects is error-prone. It will include enumerable properties from the prototype chain
- Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively return the array's indices
- Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like reachability

Only use `Array.prototype.map()` when the return value is used, otherwise use `for ( ... of ...)`.

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#iterating-objects)

### Exports

Use named exports in all code.
Avoid default `exports`.
This way all `imports` follow the same pattern.

[Source, reasoning and examples.](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#exports)

### Imports

Use [ES6 module](https://exploringjs.com/es6/ch_modules.html#sec_basics-of-es6-modules) syntax, i.e.

> ```js

Reviewer 2: How about putting the wanted `import` variants in a single codeblock, like this?

```js
import { square, diag } from 'lib';

// You may also use:

import * as lib from 'lib';
```

We could have a new codeblock for the bad variant as well:

> Avoid `require` `(as in import x = require('...');)` for imports.

- Always add unit tests for full code coverage
  - Only use `istanbul` comments for unreachable code coverage that is needed for `codecov` completion
  - Use descriptive `istanbul` comments

```js
// istanbul ignore next: can never happen
```

### Logging

Use logger metadata if logging for `WARN`, `ERROR`, `FATAL`, or if the result is a complex metadata object needing a multiple-line pretty stringification.
Otherwise, inline metadata into the log message if logging at `INFO` or below, or if the metadata object is complex.

`WARN` and above messages are often used in metrics or error catching services, and should have a consistent `msg` component so that they will be automatically grouped/associated together.
Metadata which is separate from its message is harder for human readability, so try to combine it in the message unless it's too complex to do so.

Good:

```js
logger.debug({ config }, 'Full config');
logger.warn({ presetName }, 'Failed to look up preset');
```

Avoid:

```js

> logger.debug({ branchName }, 'Generated branchName');

Reviewer: 🤔 It's not clear to me why this is bad and the `debug` above is good?

Reviewer 3: Because it's just a string, which can be easily inlined. Otherwise it will take up 4 lines of pretty output for no reason. Example:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6311784/169286176-70420a05-6475-47dd-acc2-24b63eb7b4f2.png)

Apart from the fact that the log message is factually incorrect (it actually is the default endpoint..) that log would be better as one line and not 4.

logger.warn(`Failed to look up preset ${presetName}`);
```

### Array constructor

Avoid the `Array()` constructor, with or without `new`, in your TypeScript code.
It has confusing and contradictory usage.
So you should avoid:

```js
const a = new Array(2); // [undefined, undefined]
const b = new Array(2, 3); // [2, 3];
```

Instead, always use bracket notation to initialize arrays, or `from` to initialize an Array with a certain size i.e.

> ```js
> // [0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
> Array.from < number > { length: 5 }.fill(0);
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ts
// [0, 0, 0, 0, 0]
Array.from<number>({ length: 5 }).fill(0);
```
````

is this still valid?

Author: good catch. yours is the valid one. 
no idea why i dropped the brackets there

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#array-constructor)

### Iterating objects & containers

Use `for ( ... of ...)` loops instead of `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach` and `for ( ... in ...)`.

- Using `for ( ... in ...)` for objects is error-prone. It will include enumerable properties from the prototype chain
- Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively return the array's indices
- Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like reachability

Only use `Array.prototype.map()` when the return value is used, otherwise use `for ( ... of ...)`.

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#iterating-objects)

### Exports

Use named exports in all code.
Avoid default `exports`.
This way all `imports` follow the same pattern.

[Source, reasoning and examples.](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#exports)

### Imports

Use [ES6 module](https://exploringjs.com/es6/ch_modules.html#sec_basics-of-es6-modules) syntax, i.e.

```js
import { square, diag } from 'lib';

// You may also use:

import * as lib from 'lib';
```

And avoid `require`:

> ```js

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```ts
````

We should use `ts` for typescript specific snipets

import x = require('...');
```

### HTTP & RESTful API request handling

> Prefer using [`got`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) to simplify HTTP request handling.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we suggest our `Http` class instead

Reviewer 3: Yes, good point

### Dates and times

Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) to handle dates and times.
Use `UTC` to be time zone independent.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.ts#L133-L134)

### Unit testing

> - Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`
  - Prefer  [Tagged Template Literal](https://jestjs.io/docs/api#2-testeachtablename-fn-timeout) style for `it.each`, prettier will help with format
```

### Iterating objects & containers

Use `for ( ... of ...)` loops instead of `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach` and `for ( ... in ...)`.

- Using `for ( ... in ...)` for objects is error-prone. It will include enumerable properties from the prototype chain
- Using `for ( ... in ...)` to iterate over arrays, will counterintuitively return the array's indices
- Avoid `[Array|Set|Map].prototype.forEach`. It makes code harder to debug and defeats some useful compiler checks like reachability

Only use `Array.prototype.map()` when the return value is used, otherwise use `for ( ... of ...)`.

[Source](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#iterating-objects)

### Exports

Use named exports in all code.
Avoid default `exports`.
This way all `imports` follow the same pattern.

[Source, reasoning and examples.](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#exports)

### Imports

Use [ES6 module](https://exploringjs.com/es6/ch_modules.html#sec_basics-of-es6-modules) syntax, i.e.

```ts
import { square, diag } from 'lib';

// You may also use:

import * as lib from 'lib';
```

And avoid `require`:

```ts
import x = require('...');
```

### HTTP & RESTful API request handling

> Prefer using [`got`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/got) to simplify HTTP request handling.

Author: ````suggestion
Prefer using `Http` from `util/http` to simplify HTTP request handling and to enable response caching.
Example:

```ts
import { Http } from '../../../util/http';

const http = new Http('some alias');

try {
    const body = (await http.getJson<NpmResponse>(packageUrl)).body;
} catch (err) {
  ...
}
```
````

Reviewer: `... to enable authentication and caching ...` ? As our `Http` class will transparently handle host rules

Author: ive edited the suggestion, is this more accurate?

### Dates and times

Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) to handle dates and times.
Use `UTC` to be time zone independent.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.ts#L133-L134)

### Unit testing

- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`

> - Prefer [Tagged Template Literal](https://jestjs.io/docs/api#2-testeachtablename-fn-timeout) style for `it.each`, Prettier will help with formatting

Reviewer: should we point to an example?

Author: [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/768e178419437a98f5ce4996bafd23f169e530b4/lib/modules/platform/util.spec.ts#L8-L18)

Author: added suggested one below

> - Prefer [Tagged Template Literal](https://jestjs.io/docs/api#2-testeachtablename-fn-timeout) style for `it.each`, Prettier will help with formatting

Author: ```suggestion
- Prefer [Tagged Template Literal](https://jestjs.io/docs/api#2-testeachtablename-fn-timeout) style for `it.each`, Prettier will help with formatting
[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/768e178419437a98f5ce4996bafd23f169e530b4/lib/modules/platform/util.spec.ts#L8-L18)
```

try {
    const body = (await http.getJson<Response>(url)).body;
} catch (err) {
  ...
}
```

### Dates and times

Use [`Luxon`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/luxon) to handle dates and times.
Use `UTC` to be time zone independent.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.ts#L133-L134)

### Unit testing

- Use `it.each` rather than `test.each`
- Prefer [Tagged Template Literal](https://jestjs.io/docs/api#2-testeachtablename-fn-timeout) style for `it.each`, Prettier will help with formatting
  - See [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/768e178419437a98f5ce4996bafd23f169e530b4/lib/modules/platform/util.spec.ts#L8-L18)
- Mock Date/Time when testing a Date/Time dependent module
  - For `Luxon` mocking see [Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/lib/modules/versioning/distro.spec.ts#L7-L10)
- Prefer `jest.spyOn` for mocking single functions, or mock entire modules
  - Avoid overwriting functions, for example: (`func = jest.fn();`)

### Fixtures

- Use `Fixture` class for loading fixtures

```ts

> Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading raw data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fixture.get('./file.json'); // for loading string data
```
there is also a `getBinary` function wich returns a buffer.

Fixture.getJson('./file.json'); // for loading and parsing objects
```

### Working with vanilla JS files (renovate/tools only)

Use [JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/index.html) to declare types and function prototypes.

[Example](https://github.com/renovatebot/renovate/blob/5043379847818ac1fa71ff69c098451975e95710/tools/distro-json-generate.mjs#L7-L17)

### Classes

Use [Typescript getter setters (Accessors) when needed](https://google.github.io/styleguide/tsguide.html#properties-used-outside-of-class-lexical-scope).

> The getter must be a `pure function`.

Reviewer: what is `pure` 🤔

Author: should we add an explanation ? i.e

pure functions
 - are predictable: given the same input, always returns the same output.
 - have no side effect

Reviewer 2: Please add that explanation. 😉

Author: I've added the explanation given in the provided wiki page. 
hope its alright
